README.md, before:

# Welcome to Dotenc

Dotenc is a Go application to encrypt your dotenv files so that they can be securely shared in git repositories.

Inspired by `ejson` ruby gem https://github.com/Shopify/ejson.

## Examples:

Add your secret env file:

    echo "FOO=bar" >> .env.production
    echo "export ENV=production" >> .env.production

Initialize your encryption key with:

    pwgen -N 1 -s 100 > .dotenc

Encrypt your secret env file:

    dotenc encrypt production
    cat .env.production.enc

Example content of generated encrypted env file `.env.production.enc`:

    FOO=c82426d23fbc40dfdce1a0c53a888b161f4b1807122ed4938ab0650a525489
    export ENV=c67fd814ff05ffb546dba21ec787465f092cd9e5f8a384ec2de6de00e19a497372ddbc717b9e

## Encryption

Dotenc uses AES to encrypt env values and MD5 for hashing the password.

## Requirements

- Developed with Go version go1.16.3 darwin/amd64

## Installation instructions

This program can be installed easily if you have the go language installed on your system.

    go get github.com/atrzaska/dotenc

Make sure that you have your go bin folder in your path. Add following line to your shell RC file.

    export PATH="~/go/bin:$PATH"

## Exports

To provide copy paste support from shell scripts, export keywords will be ignored, when reading dotenv files.

With that said, both versions of following environment variable definition will work just fine:

Dotenv syntax

    NODE_ENV=development

Shell export syntax

    export NODE_ENV=development

## Licence

MIT

Commit message:

Add information about ignoring key file

README.md, after:

# Welcome to Dotenc

Dotenc is a Go application to encrypt your dotenv files so that they can be securely shared in git repositories.

Inspired by `ejson` ruby gem https://github.com/Shopify/ejson.

## Examples:

Add your secret env file:

    echo "FOO=bar" >> .env.production
    echo "export ENV=production" >> .env.production

Initialize your encryption key with:

    pwgen -N 1 -s 100 > .dotenc

Add your `.dotenc` encryption key to `.gitignore` so that it is not commited to repository.

    echo ".dotenc" >> .gitignore

Encrypt your secret env file:

    dotenc encrypt production
    cat .env.production.enc

Example content of generated encrypted env file `.env.production.enc`:

    FOO=c82426d23fbc40dfdce1a0c53a888b161f4b1807122ed4938ab0650a525489
    export ENV=c67fd814ff05ffb546dba21ec787465f092cd9e5f8a384ec2de6de00e19a497372ddbc717b9e

## Encryption

Dotenc uses AES to encrypt env values and MD5 for hashing the password.
Encryption key is read from a `.dotenc` file from the current directory.
That file should never be commited to your repository.

## Requirements

- Developed with Go version go1.16.3 darwin/amd64

## Installation instructions

This program can be installed easily if you have the go language installed on your system.

    go get github.com/atrzaska/dotenc

Make sure that you have your go bin folder in your path. Add following line to your shell RC file.

    export PATH="~/go/bin:$PATH"

## Exports

To provide copy paste support from shell scripts, export keywords will be ignored, when reading dotenv files.

With that said, both versions of following environment variable definition will work just fine:

Dotenv syntax

    NODE_ENV=development

Shell export syntax

    export NODE_ENV=development

## Licence

MIT
